In this video, we'll start to take a look at the join query plan.
Query plans are helpful to look at especially when you're using Spark.
Query plans are part of the catalyst optimizer which contains a library that
presents a tree structure of relational operators of a structured query you generated.
Query plans also provide information about how the output schema was generated.
We're going to load some parquet files from two different locations.
You can do the same operations in Python as in thought explained to see this.
So we're going to load two data frames.
This is under Facilities.
Then we're going to load another data frame under Tiers.
We're just going to do a quick show on these files to see the content.
So that shows a region,
a district and the facility name which is
the hospital names and the types of the hospitals,
town, ownership and the location.
Then when you do this,
this shows a region,
facilities and the tiers of the facilities and the name in lowercase.
So we're going to do a join to see the tiers of the each facilities.
So I'm going to keep facilities df as
a left table and I'm going to keep the tiers df on the right table.
Join and when I do this.
So when I do an operation like this,
this means I'll be joining over two columns.
Then I'm going to choose inner join.
Then when I apply dot explain,
this actually show us a physical plan of how this query was generated.
Here you'll see a file-scan parquet which means this was scanned as a parquet format.
It also shows a location so that's the pixels of facilities df.
Here we have another one for tiers also in parquet and also in the Tiers folder.
We also see the project.
This shows a schema of each data frame.
We also see this BroadcastHashJoin.
So SortMergeJoin is a standard plan for join operation by keys.
Usually you will see that but right now we're seeing BroadcastHashJoin.
This shows when your joined dataset is small.
The usual threshold is 10 megabytes and it is defined
by the Spark.SQL, AutobroadcastHashJoin threshold.
Spark will choose BroadcastHashJoin when
your dataset is less than 10 megabytes which is a default value,
and sometimes ShuffleHashJoin which happens much less occasionally.